Dear Colleague:

We are writing to inform you about the First OpenCougaar Conference
to be held in New York, on July 20, 2004, colocated with AAMAS 2004.

We are contacting you directly by email because either:

1) We obtained your name from citation indices (citeseer, ACM, IEEE
eXplore, NSF award abstracts) indicating that you have recent
publications in research areas relevant to survivable multi-agent 
systems.

2) You have been involved in past workshops and meetings (sponsored by
ACM, DARPA or IEEE) related to survivable multi-agent systems.

3) You are a student or co-author of someone in category (1) or (2).

OpenCougaar Conference 2004 ---

The first OpenCougaar Conference will bring together the open source
Cougaar (www.cougaar.org) community and the larger community of
researchers and application developers interested in creating practical,
24x7 large-scale multi-agent systems.
It will provide a forum for this expanded community to exchange
ideas for building industrial-strength MAS and to compare and contrast
particular agent architectures developed for this purpose. OpenCougaar'04
will be run coincident with AAMAS 2004 in New York, NY, on 20 July 2004.
The conference will feature a mix of invited talks, selected presentations,
and panel-led open discussion forums.

Please see the conference web site https://www.schafertmd.com/cougaar2004/ 
for the preliminary program.
Please visit http://cougaar.org/ to download the Cougaar open source agent 
software.

--- OpenCougaar Conference 2004 Keynote Speech ---

Intelligent Agents meet the Semantic Web in the Aether

                      Professor Tim Finin
          Computer Science and Electrical Engineering
            University of Maryland, Baltimore County
                    http://umbc.edu/~finin/

The concept of an agent is ubiquitous in Computer Science.
We employ it to talk about and to model a wide range of
things from physical robots, to modules in client-server
architectures, to human, to Internet-based information
retrieval programs, to intelligent personal assistants.
During the past decade a "software agents" paradigm has
emerged which views agents as autonomous, cooperating
processes which use rich agent communication languages to
exchange information and knowledge and to coordinate their
activities.  This has been seen as a way to capitalize on
the opportunities (and solve many of the problems) created
by the revolution brought about by the Internet and Web.

The vision has not yet materialized. Was it an example of an
AI dream or "irrational exuberance" of the dot com era.
I'll argue that the vision is still a good one and will
describe how two new components might re-invigorate it.  The
first is the semantic web -- "an extension of the current
web in which information is given well-defined meaning,
better enabling computers and people to work in
cooperation."  The second is emergence of pervasive
computing environments with requirements that multiagent
systems are well suited to address.  The argument will be
illustrated using examples of current research at UMBC.

Tim Finin is a Professor in the Department of Computer
Science and Electrical Engineering at the University of
Maryland Baltimore County (UMBC).  He has over 30 years of
experience in the applications of AI to problems in
information systems, intelligent interfaces and robotics.
He holds degrees from MIT and the University of
Illinois. Prior to joining the UMBC, he held positions at
Unisys, the University of Pennsylvania, and the MIT AI
Laboratory.
